Several different types of databases have evolved over the years and the key to understanding them is to recognize the different retrieval patterns of the various formats and what the tradeoffs are for each. 

SQL, pronounced “sequel,” is an acronym for Structured Query Language, which is essentially a language for getting data into and out of a relational database. A relational database has a rigid structure and schema of rows and columns, and uses “joins” to connect multiple tables into relationships. These databases are good for storing and retrieving data, however they are bad for scaling due to their structure. 

A variety of different types of databases have emerged that are NOT relational databses, and fall under the category of NoSQL (“no sequel” or “not sequel”). This includes mongoDB, CouchDB, which are both document databases—a format that is less structured. SQL-like queries are still used to retrieve data, however they can be scaled out across many computers more quickly. Document databases are less structured than relational databases. NEO4J is another example of an aggregate store database. It is an open source native graph database that is highly scalable.  Graph databases are great for capturing the relationships between things as nodes can have as many key properties as needed. This type of database is particularly useful for transportation/logistics. 

NuSQL (“new sequel”) is an emerging classification of databases that is still in its experimental stage. One example is NuoDB. Data is retrieved using SQL but written in a way that’s easy to scale from multiple servers (as is most common now) with lots of nodes. However, engineers who advocate this type of database have had a hard time getting people to adopt this format. 
Immutable and time series databases are very new and very niche. They are built for functional-based programming languages and the concept is that instead of changing variables inside the database as it needs to be updated, you add to the database, creating something like an ongoing list. An example of this is Datomic. 
